
Hi, I am Kirill Tsyganov, a Machine Learning (ML) Engineer. Currently I am working in the financial services sector. My day to day is very heterogeneous and can be very disruptive, email's and Team's notifications are now a [_brown noise_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownian_noise) to me :D. Any of the following tasks are regular daily routines, change management and documentation, stakeholder engagement and communication, problem solving and coding. However the overall work and direction has stayed pretty constant for at least 10 years - enabling business to leverage data and analytics to make right and fast decisions, gaining the edge in the market. My vision is set on building an end to end data products. These products can take many forms, and be internally or externally facing, an API endpoints serving inference in real-time or a web-form that is backed by ML model and analytics on a user trigger, or even a simple summary statistics at scale that works autonomously landing into stakeholder inbox every Monday, all of these bring enormous benefit to the business efficiency of operations, reducing cost or bringing profit.

Throughout my time doing data and analytics I have observed that even "simple" solution can be hard to implement, the complexity varies not only in technical sense, but in ability to establish trusted and at level communication channel with stakeholders, where only relevant information is delivered to them in the right granularity level. It is not trivial to consolidate various project challenges from all technical arms into a couple of slides for business to make a decision and provide funding and direction. Having experienced a lot of that complexity first hand, my preferred approach is to always start simple, but do end to end. I find it is a lot easier to build on and improve existing code base rather than brainstorm all possible combinations and user behaviour ahead of time. In addition change management of adding a feature to an existing model with established performance benchmark, or uplifting a frontend dashboard is far quicker then going through initial deployment process.

As you can imagine I haven't always been _ML Engineer_, that job title didn't even exist when I was starting my journey through university, but I always have been interested in using computers and data to push into uncharted territories, learn something new and provide a knowledge "endpoint" to others. Biomedical data is where I started, specifically focusing on [Genomics data](https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/fact-sheets/Genomic-Data-Science) for many years. There are a lot of differences between being a __Bioinformatician__ in biomedical research environment, where ultimate outcome is scientific publications to __ML Engineer__ in financial service sector, highly regulated environment where innovation encouraged but with cautions and small hiccups could results in millions of dollars fines. It is a radical shift indeed, however, I feel that I am staying true to my course - keen to learn and elevate others.

If you are interested in chronological and stepwise career movement, my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kirill-tsyganov-3b145788/) profile is up to date.

Cheers

&#x270C;